Documentation/Project_guildelines.md, before:

﻿Certainly! Let's consolidate and present the content in a manner that adheres strictly to Clean Code guidelines across directory/solution organization, development precedence, and the incorporation of functional programming paradigms.

---

## **Introduction**

This guide outlines the design and development of a .NET Core application that follows Clean Code principles in every aspect. It covers:

- **Directory/Solution Organization**: Structuring the project in a way that promotes readability, maintainability, and scalability.
- **Guidelines in Development Precedence**: Steps to develop the application efficiently, starting from the data layer in a data-first approach.
- **Functional Programming Paradigms**: Integrating functional programming concepts realistically within the .NET Core framework and Clean Code standards.

## **Project and Progress Tracking**

- Utilize markdown files for project and progress tracking.
- Ensure these files are named explicitly and updated continually.
- This practice will facilitate automated LLM work on the repository.

---

## **1. Directory/Solution Organization**

Organizing the project directories and solutions in a clean, intuitive manner is crucial for maintainability and scalability. Below is the recommended structure, aligning with Clean Code guidelines and .NET Core conventions.

### **Repository Structure**

```plaintext
YourRepository/
├── src/
│   ├── YourProject.API/
│   │   ├── Controllers/
│   │   ├── Models/
│   │   ├── DTOs/
│   │   ├── Program.cs
│   │   ├── Startup.cs
│   │   └── YourProject.API.csproj
│   ├── YourProject.Application/
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   ├── Services/
│   │   ├── DTOs/
│   │   └── YourProject.Application.csproj
│   ├── YourProject.Domain/
│   │   ├── Entities/
│   │   ├── ValueObjects/
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   ├── DomainEvents/
│   │   └── YourProject.Domain.csproj
│   └── YourProject.Infrastructure/
│       ├── Data/
│       ├── Repositories/
│       ├── Configurations/
│       └── YourProject.Infrastructure.csproj
├── tests/
│   ├── YourProject.UnitTests/
│   │   ├── ApplicationTests/
│   │   ├── DomainTests/
│   │   └── YourProject.UnitTests.csproj
│   └── YourProject.IntegrationTests/
│       ├── APITests/
│       ├── DatabaseTests/
│       └── YourProject.IntegrationTests.csproj
├── docs/
│   ├── Architecture.md
│   ├── SetupGuide.md
│   └── APIReference.md
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
└── YourProject.sln
```

### **Clean Code Principles Applied in Directory Organization**

- **Meaningful Naming**: Directories and files are named to clearly convey their purpose.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Dividing code into layers (API, Application, Domain, Infrastructure) and modules promotes single responsibility.
- **Consistency**: Following a consistent naming and structural pattern throughout the project aids in navigation and understandability.
- **Encapsulation**: Grouping related classes and interfaces together minimizes dependencies and coupling.

---

## **2. Guidelines in Development Precedence**

Adopting a **data-first approach** while following Clean Code principles ensures a solid foundation and clean architecture. Below is the recommended order of development:

### **Step 1: Define Data Requirements and Design the Database Schema**

- **Understand the Data Domain**:
  - Gather detailed requirements.
  - Identify all entities, attributes, and relationships.

- **Design the Schema**:
  - Create Entity-Relationship diagrams.
  - Normalize data to eliminate redundancy.
  - Define constraints and indexes.

- **Select Appropriate Database Technology**:
  - Choose a database system that aligns with project needs and .NET Core compatibility.

### **Step 2: Implement the Domain Layer (`src/YourProject.Domain/`)**

- **Create Immutable Domain Entities** (`Entities/`):
  - Use `record` types or immutable classes.
  - Ensure entities represent business concepts accurately.

- **Define Value Objects** (`ValueObjects/`):
  - Implement immutable types for concepts without identity.
  - Override equality members appropriately.

- **Establish Domain Interfaces** (`Interfaces/`):
  - Define contracts without implementation details.

- **Handle Domain Events Functionally** (`DomainEvents/`):
  - Use immutable event objects.
  - Design event handlers to be pure functions where possible.

### **Step 3: Set Up the Infrastructure Layer (`src/YourProject.Infrastructure/`)**

- **Configure the Database Context** (`Data/`):
  - Use Entity Framework Core with a Code-First approach.
  - Map domain entities to database tables.

- **Implement Repository Patterns** (`Repositories/`):
  - Provide concrete, testable implementations of domain interfaces.
  - Follow SOLID principles, particularly single responsibility and dependency inversion.

- **Manage Migrations and Configurations**:
  - Use EF Core migrations for database changes.
  - Keep configuration settings externalized and manageable.

### **Step 4: Develop Integration Tests for Data Access**

- **Write Clean, Readable Tests**:
  - Use descriptive test names and methods.
  - Maintain independence and isolation in tests.

- **Test All Data Operations**:
  - Cover CRUD operations and edge cases.

### **Step 5: Implement Application Services (`src/YourProject.Application/`)**

- **Develop Functional Services** (`Services/`):
  - Write services as pure functions where feasible.
  - Orchestrate domain operations without side effects.

- **Define Application Interfaces** (`Interfaces/`):
  - Create interfaces focusing on application logic.

- **Create Immutable DTOs** (`DTOs/`):
  - Use `record` types for data transfer objects.

### **Step 6: Write Unit Tests for Application Services**

- **Leverage Testability of Pure Functions**:
  - Test functions with various inputs and verify consistent outputs.
  
- **Ensure High Coverage of Business Logic**:
  - Focus on critical paths and edge cases.

### **Step 7: Develop the API Layer (`src/YourProject.API/`)**

- **Implement Stateless Controllers** (`Controllers/`):
  - Keep controllers thin; delegate to application services.
  - Use dependency injection for service instances.

- **Use Functional Middleware**:
  - Implement middleware components as composable functions.

- **Create API Models and DTOs** (`Models/` and `DTOs/`):
  - Keep models immutable where possible.

- **Configure Program and Startup Classes**:
  - Set up dependency injection, routing, and middleware in a clean, organized manner.

### **Step 8: Write Integration Tests for API Endpoints**

- **Ensure End-to-End Functionality**:
  - Test API endpoints with various inputs and expected outputs.

- **Maintain Test Clarity**:
  - Write tests that are easy to read and maintain.

### **Step 9: Finalize Configuration and Prepare for Deployment**

- **Manage Environment Configurations**:
  - Use environment variables and configuration files responsibly.

- **Optimize Performance and Security Settings**:
  - Follow best practices for production readiness.

### **Step 10: Update Documentation (`docs/`)**

- **Keep Documentation Clear and Up-to-Date**:
  - Ensure that all changes are reflected in the documentation.

- **Follow Clean Code in Documentation**:
  - Use clear language and organize content logically.

### **Step 11: Perform Final Testing and Quality Assurance**

- **Conduct Comprehensive Testing**:
  - Include functional, performance, and security tests.

- **Use Code Analysis Tools**:
  - Utilize static code analysis to enforce code standards.

### **Step 12: Release and Monitor the Application**

- **Deploy Using CI/CD Pipelines**:
  - Automate the deployment process.

- **Monitor and Maintain**:
  - Set up logging and monitoring tools.

---

## **3. Incorporating Functional Programming Paradigms**

Integrate functional programming concepts in a way that adheres to Clean Code principles.

### **Functional Programming Principles to Apply**

- **Immutability**:
  - Favor immutable data structures.
  - Use `readonly` fields and `record` types.

- **Pure Functions**:
  - Write functions that have no side effects and return the same output for the same input.

- **Higher-Order Functions**:
  - Pass functions as parameters and return them as results.

- **Expression Transparency**:
  - Ensure that the behavior of code is predictable and transparent.

### **Applying Functional Programming in the Project**

#### **Domain Layer**

- **Immutable Entities and Value Objects**:
  - Example:
    ```csharp
    public record Product
    {
        public Guid Id { get; init; }
        public string Name { get; init; }
        public decimal Price { get; init; }

        public Product ChangePrice(decimal newPrice) => this with { Price = newPrice };
    }
    ```
  - **Clean Code Alignment**: Promotes simplicity and reduces side effects.

- **Pure Functions for Business Logic**:
  - Encapsulate logic in functions without side effects.

- **Avoid Static Classes**:
  - Keep functions in contextually appropriate classes or modules.

#### **Application Layer**

- **Service Composition**:
  - Build services by composing pure functions.
  - Example:
    ```csharp
    public class InventoryService : IInventoryService
    {
        private readonly IProductRepository _productRepository;

        public InventoryService(IProductRepository productRepository)
        {
            _productRepository = productRepository;
        }

        public async Task<Result<Product>> UpdateProductPrice(Guid productId, decimal newPrice)
        {
            var productResult = await _productRepository.GetByIdAsync(productId);
            return productResult
                .ToResult("Product not found.")
                .Bind(product => Result.Success(product.ChangePrice(newPrice)))
                .Tap(async updatedProduct => await _productRepository.UpdateAsync(updatedProduct));
        }
    }
    ```
  - **Clean Code Alignment**: Functions are small, do one thing well, and are easy to test.

#### **Infrastructure Layer**

- **Functional Data Access**:
  - Use LINQ expressions and deferred execution where appropriate.
  - Keep repository methods concise and expressive.

- **Isolation of Side Effects**:
  - Limit database interactions to this layer.
  - Keep other layers pure.

#### **API Layer**

- **Functional Endpoints**:
  - Controllers handle HTTP requests and responses, delegating logic to services.

- **Asynchronous Programming**:
  - Use `async` and `await` patterns effectively.

#### **Testing**

- **Leverage Immutability and Pure Functions**:
  - Simplify tests due to predictable function outputs.
  - Reduce the need for extensive mocking.

- **Property-Based Testing**:
  - Use frameworks like FsCheck to test properties over a range of inputs.

#### **Overall Architectural Considerations**

- **Functional Core, Imperative Shell**:
  - Keep the core logic pure and functional.
  - Encapsulate side effects in the outer layers.

- **Avoid Nullable Types Where Possible**:
  - Use `Option<T>` or similar constructs to represent optional values.

- **Error Handling**:
  - Use functional patterns for error propagation (e.g., `Result<T>`, `Either<TLeft, TRight>`).

### **Clean Code Principles Reinforced by Functional Programming**

- **Single Responsibility Principle**:
  - Functions and methods do one thing.

- **Expressiveness**:
  - Code reads like well-written prose.

- **Avoidance of Side Effects**:
  - Functions are predictable and easier to test.

- **Clear Error Handling**:
  - Errors are handled explicitly and transparently.

---

## **Conclusion**

By organizing the directory structure thoughtfully, following a disciplined development order, and integrating functional programming paradigms, you align the project closely with Clean Code principles. This approach ensures:

- **Maintainability**: Clean, well-organized code is easier to maintain and extend.
- **Testability**: Pure functions and immutability simplify testing.
- **Scalability**: A solid architecture allows the application to grow without excessive refactoring.
- **Readability**: Clear and expressive code enhances collaboration and reduces misunderstandings.

---

## **Key Takeaways**

- **Directory/Solution Organization**: Structure your project to reflect logical separation of concerns, using clear and consistent naming.

- **Development Precedence**: Begin with the foundation (the data layer) and build upwards, ensuring each layer is well-defined and tested before moving on.

- **Functional Programming Integration**: Apply functional principles where they enhance code quality, but balance with practicality within the .NET Core ecosystem.

- **Adherence to Clean Code**: Throughout all stages, prioritize code clarity, simplicity, and adherence to established coding standards.

---

**Next Steps**:

- **Implement the Design**: Use this guide to start building your application, ensuring that each aspect aligns with Clean Code principles.

- **Continuous Learning**: Stay updated on best practices in Clean Code and functional programming within C# and .NET Core.

- **Code Reviews**: Regularly conduct code reviews to enforce standards and share knowledge within the team.

---

Feel free to reach out if you need further assistance or clarification on any aspect of this guide!
# Project Guidelines

## Overview
This document outlines the development standards, processes, and best practices for the Neoron project.

## Checklist-Driven Development

### Purpose
- Ensure consistent quality across deliverables
- Track progress effectively
- Identify blockers early
- Maintain clear documentation
- Enable efficient collaboration

### Checklist Management
1. **Creation**
   - Create checklist at project/feature initiation
   - Break down into measurable tasks
   - Include acceptance criteria
   - Set priorities (High/Medium/Low)
   - Establish deadlines

2. **Maintenance**
   - Review weekly
   - Update progress regularly
   - Document blockers
   - Track dependencies
   - Adjust timelines as needed

3. **Structure**
   - Group items by category
   - Include completion status
   - Add progress percentages
   - Note dependencies
   - Track dates (start/completion)

### Implementation Requirements

#### Architecture
- Use clean architecture principles
- Implement repository pattern
- Support dependency injection
- Follow SOLID principles
- Include proper separation of concerns

#### Code Quality
- Write unit tests
- Perform code reviews
- Follow C# coding standards
- Document public APIs
- Use consistent naming conventions

#### Database
- Use proper indexing
- Implement soft deletes
- Include audit fields
- Follow naming conventions
- Maintain referential integrity

#### Security
- Implement authentication
- Add authorization
- Validate input
- Prevent SQL injection
- Handle sensitive data appropriately

#### Performance
- Optimize queries
- Implement caching
- Use async/await properly
- Add monitoring
- Support scalability

## Review Process
1. Self-review against checklist
2. Peer code review
3. Technical lead review
4. Final verification
5. Documentation update

## Documentation
- Keep README current
- Document API changes
- Update deployment guides
- Maintain change logs
- Include setup instructions

## Version Control
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Follow branching strategy
- Tag releases
- Keep clean history
- Review before merge
# Neoron Project Guidelines

## Code Organization

### Project Structure
- Keep related files together in appropriate namespaces
- Follow Clean Architecture principles with clear separation of concerns
- Use feature folders where appropriate
- Maintain consistent file naming conventions

### Naming Conventions
- Use PascalCase for class names, public members, and interfaces
- Prefix interfaces with 'I' (e.g., IDiscordMessageRepository)
- Use clear, descriptive names that reflect purpose
- Avoid abbreviations unless widely understood

## Coding Standards

### General Guidelines
- Follow C# coding conventions
- Write self-documenting code with clear intent
- Keep methods focused and small
- Limit method parameters (consider using parameter objects)
- Use dependency injection for better testability

### Async/Await
- Use async/await consistently
- Include ConfigureAwait(false) where appropriate
- Follow TAP (Task-based Asynchronous Pattern)
- Use cancellation tokens for long-running operations

### Error Handling
- Use meaningful exception types
- Implement global exception handling
- Log exceptions appropriately
- Return meaningful error responses from API endpoints

## Documentation

### Code Documentation
- Provide XML documentation for public APIs
- Include examples in complex scenarios
- Document assumptions and preconditions
- Keep documentation up-to-date with code changes

### API Documentation
- Use Swagger/OpenAPI for API documentation
- Include example requests and responses
- Document error scenarios
- Keep API versioning information current

## Testing

### Unit Tests
- Write tests for business logic
- Follow Arrange-Act-Assert pattern
- Use meaningful test names describing scenario
- Mock external dependencies appropriately

### Integration Tests
- Test database operations
- Verify API endpoints
- Use appropriate test data
- Clean up test data after execution

## Database

### Entity Framework
- Use migrations for schema changes
- Follow DbContext best practices
- Implement repository pattern correctly
- Use appropriate indexing strategies

### Performance
- Write efficient queries
- Use pagination for large datasets
- Implement caching where appropriate
- Monitor query performance

## Security

### API Security
- Implement proper authentication
- Use appropriate authorization
- Rate limit endpoints
- Validate all inputs

### Data Protection
- Protect sensitive data
- Use secure communication
- Implement proper access controls
- Follow security best practices

## Deployment & DevOps

### Build Process
- Maintain clean build pipeline
- Use appropriate versioning
- Include necessary analysis steps
- Automate where possible

### Monitoring
- Implement proper logging
- Set up application monitoring
- Track performance metrics
- Configure appropriate alerts

## Version Control

### Git Practices
- Write meaningful commit messages
- Use feature branches
- Keep commits focused and atomic
- Follow branch naming conventions

### Pull Requests
- Include appropriate documentation
- Add relevant tests
- Update API documentation if needed
- Ensure all checks pass

## Dependencies

### NuGet Packages
- Keep dependencies up to date
- Audit security vulnerabilities
- Document major version updates
- Consider package impact on build time

## Review Process

### Code Reviews
- Review for functionality
- Check code style consistency
- Verify test coverage
- Ensure documentation updates

### Performance Reviews
- Review query performance
- Check memory usage
- Verify response times
- Monitor resource utilization

Commit message:

docs: Update project guidelines and implementation checklist

Documentation/Project_guildelines.md, after:

# Project Guidelines

## Overview
This document outlines the design principles and development standards for our .NET Core application.

## Key Areas
- Project Structure and Organization
- Development Process Guidelines  
- Clean Code Implementation
- Functional Programming Integration

## **Project and Progress Tracking**

- Utilize markdown files for project and progress tracking.
- Ensure these files are named explicitly and updated continually.
- This practice will facilitate automated LLM work on the repository.

---

## **1. Directory/Solution Organization**

Organizing the project directories and solutions in a clean, intuitive manner is crucial for maintainability and scalability. Below is the recommended structure, aligning with Clean Code guidelines and .NET Core conventions.

### **Repository Structure**

```plaintext
YourRepository/
├── src/
│   ├── YourProject.API/
│   │   ├── Controllers/
│   │   ├── Models/
│   │   ├── DTOs/
│   │   ├── Program.cs
│   │   ├── Startup.cs
│   │   └── YourProject.API.csproj
│   ├── YourProject.Application/
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   ├── Services/
│   │   ├── DTOs/
│   │   └── YourProject.Application.csproj
│   ├── YourProject.Domain/
│   │   ├── Entities/
│   │   ├── ValueObjects/
│   │   ├── Interfaces/
│   │   ├── DomainEvents/
│   │   └── YourProject.Domain.csproj
│   └── YourProject.Infrastructure/
│       ├── Data/
│       ├── Repositories/
│       ├── Configurations/
│       └── YourProject.Infrastructure.csproj
├── tests/
│   ├── YourProject.UnitTests/
│   │   ├── ApplicationTests/
│   │   ├── DomainTests/
│   │   └── YourProject.UnitTests.csproj
│   └── YourProject.IntegrationTests/
│       ├── APITests/
│       ├── DatabaseTests/
│       └── YourProject.IntegrationTests.csproj
├── docs/
│   ├── Architecture.md
│   ├── SetupGuide.md
│   └── APIReference.md
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
└── YourProject.sln
```

### **Clean Code Principles Applied in Directory Organization**

- **Meaningful Naming**: Directories and files are named to clearly convey their purpose.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Dividing code into layers (API, Application, Domain, Infrastructure) and modules promotes single responsibility.
- **Consistency**: Following a consistent naming and structural pattern throughout the project aids in navigation and understandability.
- **Encapsulation**: Grouping related classes and interfaces together minimizes dependencies and coupling.

---

## **2. Guidelines in Development Precedence**

Adopting a **data-first approach** while following Clean Code principles ensures a solid foundation and clean architecture. Below is the recommended order of development:

### **Step 1: Define Data Requirements and Design the Database Schema**

- **Understand the Data Domain**:
  - Gather detailed requirements.
  - Identify all entities, attributes, and relationships.

- **Design the Schema**:
  - Create Entity-Relationship diagrams.
  - Normalize data to eliminate redundancy.
  - Define constraints and indexes.

- **Select Appropriate Database Technology**:
  - Choose a database system that aligns with project needs and .NET Core compatibility.

### **Step 2: Implement the Domain Layer (`src/YourProject.Domain/`)**

- **Create Immutable Domain Entities** (`Entities/`):
  - Use `record` types or immutable classes.
  - Ensure entities represent business concepts accurately.

- **Define Value Objects** (`ValueObjects/`):
  - Implement immutable types for concepts without identity.
  - Override equality members appropriately.

- **Establish Domain Interfaces** (`Interfaces/`):
  - Define contracts without implementation details.

- **Handle Domain Events Functionally** (`DomainEvents/`):
  - Use immutable event objects.
  - Design event handlers to be pure functions where possible.

### **Step 3: Set Up the Infrastructure Layer (`src/YourProject.Infrastructure/`)**

- **Configure the Database Context** (`Data/`):
  - Use Entity Framework Core with a Code-First approach.
  - Map domain entities to database tables.

- **Implement Repository Patterns** (`Repositories/`):
  - Provide concrete, testable implementations of domain interfaces.
  - Follow SOLID principles, particularly single responsibility and dependency inversion.

- **Manage Migrations and Configurations**:
  - Use EF Core migrations for database changes.
  - Keep configuration settings externalized and manageable.

### **Step 4: Develop Integration Tests for Data Access**

- **Write Clean, Readable Tests**:
  - Use descriptive test names and methods.
  - Maintain independence and isolation in tests.

- **Test All Data Operations**:
  - Cover CRUD operations and edge cases.

### **Step 5: Implement Application Services (`src/YourProject.Application/`)**

- **Develop Functional Services** (`Services/`):
  - Write services as pure functions where feasible.
  - Orchestrate domain operations without side effects.

- **Define Application Interfaces** (`Interfaces/`):
  - Create interfaces focusing on application logic.

- **Create Immutable DTOs** (`DTOs/`):
  - Use `record` types for data transfer objects.

### **Step 6: Write Unit Tests for Application Services**

- **Leverage Testability of Pure Functions**:
  - Test functions with various inputs and verify consistent outputs.
  
- **Ensure High Coverage of Business Logic**:
  - Focus on critical paths and edge cases.

### **Step 7: Develop the API Layer (`src/YourProject.API/`)**

- **Implement Stateless Controllers** (`Controllers/`):
  - Keep controllers thin; delegate to application services.
  - Use dependency injection for service instances.

- **Use Functional Middleware**:
  - Implement middleware components as composable functions.

- **Create API Models and DTOs** (`Models/` and `DTOs/`):
  - Keep models immutable where possible.

- **Configure Program and Startup Classes**:
  - Set up dependency injection, routing, and middleware in a clean, organized manner.

### **Step 8: Write Integration Tests for API Endpoints**

- **Ensure End-to-End Functionality**:
  - Test API endpoints with various inputs and expected outputs.

- **Maintain Test Clarity**:
  - Write tests that are easy to read and maintain.

### **Step 9: Finalize Configuration and Prepare for Deployment**

- **Manage Environment Configurations**:
  - Use environment variables and configuration files responsibly.

- **Optimize Performance and Security Settings**:
  - Follow best practices for production readiness.

### **Step 10: Update Documentation (`docs/`)**

- **Keep Documentation Clear and Up-to-Date**:
  - Ensure that all changes are reflected in the documentation.

- **Follow Clean Code in Documentation**:
  - Use clear language and organize content logically.

### **Step 11: Perform Final Testing and Quality Assurance**

- **Conduct Comprehensive Testing**:
  - Include functional, performance, and security tests.

- **Use Code Analysis Tools**:
  - Utilize static code analysis to enforce code standards.

### **Step 12: Release and Monitor the Application**

- **Deploy Using CI/CD Pipelines**:
  - Automate the deployment process.

- **Monitor and Maintain**:
  - Set up logging and monitoring tools.

---

## **3. Incorporating Functional Programming Paradigms**

Integrate functional programming concepts in a way that adheres to Clean Code principles.

### **Functional Programming Principles to Apply**

- **Immutability**:
  - Favor immutable data structures.
  - Use `readonly` fields and `record` types.

- **Pure Functions**:
  - Write functions that have no side effects and return the same output for the same input.

- **Higher-Order Functions**:
  - Pass functions as parameters and return them as results.

- **Expression Transparency**:
  - Ensure that the behavior of code is predictable and transparent.

### **Applying Functional Programming in the Project**

#### **Domain Layer**

- **Immutable Entities and Value Objects**:
  - Example:
    ```csharp
    public record Product
    {
        public Guid Id { get; init; }
        public string Name { get; init; }
        public decimal Price { get; init; }

        public Product ChangePrice(decimal newPrice) => this with { Price = newPrice };
    }
    ```
  - **Clean Code Alignment**: Promotes simplicity and reduces side effects.

- **Pure Functions for Business Logic**:
  - Encapsulate logic in functions without side effects.

- **Avoid Static Classes**:
  - Keep functions in contextually appropriate classes or modules.

#### **Application Layer**

- **Service Composition**:
  - Build services by composing pure functions.
  - Example:
    ```csharp
    public class InventoryService : IInventoryService
    {
        private readonly IProductRepository _productRepository;

        public InventoryService(IProductRepository productRepository)
        {
            _productRepository = productRepository;
        }

        public async Task<Result<Product>> UpdateProductPrice(Guid productId, decimal newPrice)
        {
            var productResult = await _productRepository.GetByIdAsync(productId);
            return productResult
                .ToResult("Product not found.")
                .Bind(product => Result.Success(product.ChangePrice(newPrice)))
                .Tap(async updatedProduct => await _productRepository.UpdateAsync(updatedProduct));
        }
    }
    ```
  - **Clean Code Alignment**: Functions are small, do one thing well, and are easy to test.

#### **Infrastructure Layer**

- **Functional Data Access**:
  - Use LINQ expressions and deferred execution where appropriate.
  - Keep repository methods concise and expressive.

- **Isolation of Side Effects**:
  - Limit database interactions to this layer.
  - Keep other layers pure.

#### **API Layer**

- **Functional Endpoints**:
  - Controllers handle HTTP requests and responses, delegating logic to services.

- **Asynchronous Programming**:
  - Use `async` and `await` patterns effectively.

#### **Testing**

- **Leverage Immutability and Pure Functions**:
  - Simplify tests due to predictable function outputs.
  - Reduce the need for extensive mocking.

- **Property-Based Testing**:
  - Use frameworks like FsCheck to test properties over a range of inputs.

#### **Overall Architectural Considerations**

- **Functional Core, Imperative Shell**:
  - Keep the core logic pure and functional.
  - Encapsulate side effects in the outer layers.

- **Avoid Nullable Types Where Possible**:
  - Use `Option<T>` or similar constructs to represent optional values.

- **Error Handling**:
  - Use functional patterns for error propagation (e.g., `Result<T>`, `Either<TLeft, TRight>`).

### **Clean Code Principles Reinforced by Functional Programming**

- **Single Responsibility Principle**:
  - Functions and methods do one thing.

- **Expressiveness**:
  - Code reads like well-written prose.

- **Avoidance of Side Effects**:
  - Functions are predictable and easier to test.

- **Clear Error Handling**:
  - Errors are handled explicitly and transparently.

---

## **Conclusion**

By organizing the directory structure thoughtfully, following a disciplined development order, and integrating functional programming paradigms, you align the project closely with Clean Code principles. This approach ensures:

- **Maintainability**: Clean, well-organized code is easier to maintain and extend.
- **Testability**: Pure functions and immutability simplify testing.
- **Scalability**: A solid architecture allows the application to grow without excessive refactoring.
- **Readability**: Clear and expressive code enhances collaboration and reduces misunderstandings.

---

## **Key Takeaways**

- **Directory/Solution Organization**: Structure your project to reflect logical separation of concerns, using clear and consistent naming.

- **Development Precedence**: Begin with the foundation (the data layer) and build upwards, ensuring each layer is well-defined and tested before moving on.

- **Functional Programming Integration**: Apply functional principles where they enhance code quality, but balance with practicality within the .NET Core ecosystem.

- **Adherence to Clean Code**: Throughout all stages, prioritize code clarity, simplicity, and adherence to established coding standards.

---

**Next Steps**:

- **Implement the Design**: Use this guide to start building your application, ensuring that each aspect aligns with Clean Code principles.

- **Continuous Learning**: Stay updated on best practices in Clean Code and functional programming within C# and .NET Core.

- **Code Reviews**: Regularly conduct code reviews to enforce standards and share knowledge within the team.

---

Feel free to reach out if you need further assistance or clarification on any aspect of this guide!
# Project Guidelines

## Overview
This document outlines the development standards, processes, and best practices for the Neoron project.

## Checklist-Driven Development

### Purpose
- Ensure consistent quality across deliverables
- Track progress effectively
- Identify blockers early
- Maintain clear documentation
- Enable efficient collaboration

### Checklist Management
1. **Creation**
   - Create checklist at project/feature initiation
   - Break down into measurable tasks
   - Include acceptance criteria
   - Set priorities (High/Medium/Low)
   - Establish deadlines

2. **Maintenance**
   - Review weekly
   - Update progress regularly
   - Document blockers
   - Track dependencies
   - Adjust timelines as needed

3. **Structure**
   - Group items by category
   - Include completion status
   - Add progress percentages
   - Note dependencies
   - Track dates (start/completion)

### Implementation Requirements

#### Architecture
- Use clean architecture principles
- Implement repository pattern
- Support dependency injection
- Follow SOLID principles
- Include proper separation of concerns

#### Code Quality
- Write unit tests
- Perform code reviews
- Follow C# coding standards
- Document public APIs
- Use consistent naming conventions

#### Database
- Use proper indexing
- Implement soft deletes
- Include audit fields
- Follow naming conventions
- Maintain referential integrity

#### Security
- Implement authentication
- Add authorization
- Validate input
- Prevent SQL injection
- Handle sensitive data appropriately

#### Performance
- Optimize queries
- Implement caching
- Use async/await properly
- Add monitoring
- Support scalability

## Review Process
1. Self-review against checklist
2. Peer code review
3. Technical lead review
4. Final verification
5. Documentation update

## Documentation
- Keep README current
- Document API changes
- Update deployment guides
- Maintain change logs
- Include setup instructions

## Version Control
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Follow branching strategy
- Tag releases
- Keep clean history
- Review before merge
# Neoron Project Guidelines

## Code Organization

### Project Structure
- Keep related files together in appropriate namespaces
- Follow Clean Architecture principles with clear separation of concerns
- Use feature folders where appropriate
- Maintain consistent file naming conventions

### Naming Conventions
- Use PascalCase for class names, public members, and interfaces
- Prefix interfaces with 'I' (e.g., IDiscordMessageRepository)
- Use clear, descriptive names that reflect purpose
- Avoid abbreviations unless widely understood

## Coding Standards

### General Guidelines
- Follow C# coding conventions
- Write self-documenting code with clear intent
- Keep methods focused and small
- Limit method parameters (consider using parameter objects)
- Use dependency injection for better testability

### Async/Await
- Use async/await consistently
- Include ConfigureAwait(false) where appropriate
- Follow TAP (Task-based Asynchronous Pattern)
- Use cancellation tokens for long-running operations

### Error Handling
- Use meaningful exception types
- Implement global exception handling
- Log exceptions appropriately
- Return meaningful error responses from API endpoints

## Documentation

### Code Documentation
- Provide XML documentation for public APIs
- Include examples in complex scenarios
- Document assumptions and preconditions
- Keep documentation up-to-date with code changes

### API Documentation
- Use Swagger/OpenAPI for API documentation
- Include example requests and responses
- Document error scenarios
- Keep API versioning information current

## Testing

### Unit Tests
- Write tests for business logic
- Follow Arrange-Act-Assert pattern
- Use meaningful test names describing scenario
- Mock external dependencies appropriately

### Integration Tests
- Test database operations
- Verify API endpoints
- Use appropriate test data
- Clean up test data after execution

## Database

### Entity Framework
- Use migrations for schema changes
- Follow DbContext best practices
- Implement repository pattern correctly
- Use appropriate indexing strategies

### Performance
- Write efficient queries
- Use pagination for large datasets
- Implement caching where appropriate
- Monitor query performance

## Security

### API Security
- Implement proper authentication
- Use appropriate authorization
- Rate limit endpoints
- Validate all inputs

### Data Protection
- Protect sensitive data
- Use secure communication
- Implement proper access controls
- Follow security best practices

## Deployment & DevOps

### Build Process
- Maintain clean build pipeline
- Use appropriate versioning
- Include necessary analysis steps
- Automate where possible

### Monitoring
- Implement proper logging
- Set up application monitoring
- Track performance metrics
- Configure appropriate alerts

## Version Control

### Git Practices
- Write meaningful commit messages
- Use feature branches
- Keep commits focused and atomic
- Follow branch naming conventions

### Pull Requests
- Include appropriate documentation
- Add relevant tests
- Update API documentation if needed
- Ensure all checks pass

## Dependencies

### NuGet Packages
- Keep dependencies up to date
- Audit security vulnerabilities
- Document major version updates
- Consider package impact on build time

## Review Process

### Code Reviews
- Review for functionality
- Check code style consistency
- Verify test coverage
- Ensure documentation updates

### Performance Reviews
- Review query performance
- Check memory usage
- Verify response times
- Monitor resource utilization
